W-22108309-query-complexity¨ (#1050)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.13/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-graphql-static-query-complexity.adoc

= GraphQL Static Query Complexity Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: graphql, query complexity, api gateway, flex gateway, gateway, policy

[width="100%", cols="5,15"]
|===
>s| Policy Name | GraphQL Static Query Complexity
>s| Summary | Calculates query complexity and blocks requests that exceed the defined budget
>s| Category | Security
>s| First Flex Gateway version available | v1.13.0
.1+>.^s| Returned status codes
| 400 - Parse failures always trigger a 400 response. Complexity and list violations return this code only if *Block request* is enabled. The response includes a standard GraphQL errors object.
|===

== Summary

The GraphQL Static Query Complexity policy estimates the complexity of each incoming GraphQL operation from your GraphQL schema and the operation text. If the estimate exceeds the configured budget or fails other checks enforced by the policy, Flex Gateway rejects the request or logs a warning and forwards it upstream.

The policy loads schema in these ways:

* If `source` is `context`, Flex Gateway automatically loads the schema file from the API asset in Anypoint Exchange.

> * If `source` is `inline`, you provide the schema text directly in the policy configuration. This is the standard approach for local mode or when a schema is not hosted in Exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* If `source` is `inline`, provide the schema text directly in the policy configuration. This is required for local mode or environments not connected to Exchange.
```

After Flex Gateway extracts the GraphQL operation text, the policy analyzes query complexity.

If Flex Gateway can't resolve the full operation text, as with persisted queries, it skips complexity analysis.

> If a system error occurs during analysis, even if the schema loads into memory, Flex Gateway logs a warning and forwards the request instead of blocking it.

Reviewer: Ensure if when block operation is true.

  config:
    maximumComplexity: <number> // REQUIRED, must be positive
    source: <string> // OPTIONAL, default: context; values: "context" or "inline"
    schema: <string> // REQUIRED when source is inline; omit when source is context
    defaultFieldCost: <number> // OPTIONAL, default: 1.0, must be >= 0
    blockOperation: <boolean> // OPTIONAL, default: true
    rejectUnboundedLists: <boolean> // OPTIONAL, default: true
    directiveName: <string> // OPTIONAL, default: cost
    valueArgument: <string> // OPTIONAL, default: weight
    multipliersArgument: <string> // OPTIONAL, default: multipliers
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===

| Parameter | Required | Default Value | Description

| `maximumComplexity`
| Yes
| None
| The maximum complexity score allowed for a single query. Requests exceeding this value are blocked or logged as warnings.

| `source`
| No
| `context`
| `context` automatically retrieves the schema file from the API asset in Anypoint Exchange. `inline` uses the schema text provided directly in the policy configuration. This is required for local mode or environments not connected to Exchange.

| `schema`

> | Required when `source` is `inline`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| No
```

| Omit for `context`
| The schema text used for validation. Required if `source` is `inline`.

| `defaultFieldCost`
| No
| `1.0`
| The cost applied to fields that do not have a specific complexity tag (typically @cost) in your schema file.

| `blockOperation`
| No
| `true`

> | How Flex Gateway handles requests that exceed the complexity limit. If `true`, Flex Gateway blocks the request and returns a 400 Bad Request error. If `false`, Flex Gateway logs a warning and forwards the request to your backend. Parse failures always trigger a 400 response, even if this setting is `false`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|  Specifies whether Flex Gateway blocks requests that exceed the complexity limit. If `true`, Flex Gateway blocks the request and returns a `400` Bad Request error. If `false`, Flex Gateway logs a warning and forwards the request to your backend. Parse failures always trigger a `400` response, even if this setting is `false`.
```

| `rejectUnboundedLists`
| No
| `true`

> | If `true`, Flex Gateway blocks queries for list fields that lack a limiting argument, such as `first` or `limit`. This setting prevents users from requesting large datasets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| If `true`, Flex Gateway blocks queries for list fields that lack a limiting argument, such as `first` or `limit`. This prevents users from requesting large datasets.
```

|===

==== Resource Configuration Example

This example sets the maximum complexity at `250`, uses default costs and tag names, and provides the schema text inline:

[source,yaml]
----
- policyRef:
    name: graphql-static-query-complexity-flex
  config:
    source: inline
    maximumComplexity: 250
    blockOperation: true
    rejectUnboundedLists: true
    schema: |
      directive @cost(weight: Int!, multipliers: [String!]) on FIELD_DEFINITION

      type Query {
        users(limit: Int): [User!]! @cost(weight: 1, multipliers: ["limit"])
        version: String!
      }

      type User {
        id: ID!
        name: String!
      }
----

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=ui]

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
s|Field s|Description s|Default Value s|Required

| Maximum Complexity |The maximum allowed complexity score for a query. | None | Yes
| Default Field Cost | The cost applied to fields lacking a specific complexity tag in your schema file. | `1.0` | No

> | Block request | Specifies whether Flex Gateway blocks requests that exceed the complexity limit. If enabled, Flex Gateway blocks the request and returns a 400 error. If disabled, Flex Gateway logs violations as warnings. Parse failures always trigger a 400 response, regardless of this setting. | Enabled | Yes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Block request | Specifies whether Flex Gateway blocks requests that exceed the complexity limit. If enabled, Flex Gateway blocks the request and returns a `400` error. If disabled, Flex Gateway logs violations as warnings. Parse failures always trigger a `400` response, regardless of this setting. | Enabled | Yes
```

| Reject unbounded lists | If enabled, Flex Gateway blocks queries for list fields that lack a limiting argument, such as `first` or `limit`. | Enabled | Yes
| Directive Name | The name of the complexity tag in your schema file that defines per-field costs. | `cost` | No
| Value Argument | The argument within your complexity tag that specifies the field's base cost. | `weight` | No

> | Multipliers Argument | The argument within your complexity tag that identifies which query parameters multiply the cost. | `multipliers` | No

Reviewer: Add the examples of these things you use above here

|===

> [NOTE]

Reviewer: Remove this note
